This just in a new candid message
from President Biden on Israel.
At a fund raiser in Washington
just a short while ago,
Biden told donors
that Israel is losing support
around the world.
And Prime Minister
Benjamin
Netanyahu needs to change his hard
line government.
CNN's Arlette Signs
joins us from the White House.
Wow.
These are pretty
stark words from a president who has been
in a robust way, supportive
of what
the Israeli government has been doing.
Yeah, that's right, Dana.
These are very candid comments.
Perhaps President Biden's
most candid comments
about the conflict
between Israel and Hamas.
The president
made these comments at an off
camera closed door fundraiser.
So we have a pool report
that's offering some quotes from that.
And it said that President Biden
had warned
that Israel was beginning to lose support
amid its heavy bombardment of Gaza.
And the president suggested
that it may be time for Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
to change his government.
The quotes say that
Netanyahu has a tough decision
to make and quote,
this is the most conservative government
in Israel's
history, Biden
said, adding that the government doesn't
want a two-State solution.
The president added
that Israel was beginning
to lose support around the world.
And said
Netanyahu, quote, has to strengthen
and change the Israeli government.
But it does come,
as you have seen President Biden
very publicly stand
shoulder to shoulder with Netanyahu.
But there have been some warnings
specifically about the campaign in Gaza
and the mounting civilian casualties.
There's been
widespread criticism about that.
And President Biden
has warned
Israel to take more caution
to protect civilian life.
But these are certainly
some of the president's
most candid comments
as he is warning
that Netanyahu
is losing support around the world.
Thank you so much for that.
Our Latin reporters are back here.
Jeff Mason,
to me,
obviously,
what Arlette was just reporting
is, is kind of the headline that he said.
He warned that Israel is losing support.
But also this, the second quote
which explains may be the first quote.
This is the most conservative government
in Israel's history,
adding that the Israeli government
doesn't want to a state solution.
Am I reading too much into this
to say that?
Never mind the war,
that the administration
and the president himself
is starting to see a finish line
for Prime Minister Netanyahu and
kind of saying the quiet part out loud
that maybe it's time
for that government
to change
which people in Israel
expect to happen
after the war is over anyway?
I absolutely do.
And I don't think you're reading
too much into it.
I think the Biden administration
is focused
on what happens when the war is over.
And you've heard the president
and others
in his administration
talk about a two state solution
a lot in the last few weeks.
They want to be sure
that there is somebody in place
that actually supports that
and this government does it.
I think it's also telling that he said
Israel is doing indiscriminate
bombing over Gaza.
And it comes after last night he was
he had a reception
at the White House for Hanukkah.
And he gave an anecdote
about having a picture
taken with Bibi Netanyahu
decades ago
when they first met each other.
And he said
on the back of that picture,
I wrote an inscription saying,
I love you,
but I don't agree with anything you say.
And he followed up by that
and followed up with that
last night saying.
And that pretty much applies today, too.
So there's a shift.
And today, the fundraiser comment
and his comment last night
as a signal of that And Paul Cain,
you spend all your time on Capitol Hill
where there
certainly is a lot of support
for Israel, bipartisan support.
But there is
a rift among the president's own party.
Yeah, look, the
Israel for Democrats is
I'm not comparing the
how the wars
are being conducted in the players,
but in terms of the politics.
Israel for Democrats
in some ways
is becoming like Ukraine for Republicans.
They their base
the Democratic base is not happy
with how Israel is conducting this war.
And they are
they're showing up at senators' offices
here in Washington. And back home.
They are showing up everywhere
and protesting.
And so they're right now,
they are
the loudest voices on this issue
in the Democratic coalition.
And Democratic
lawmakers are reflecting that.
And yet
and yet
you have
the Secretary
of State, Antony Blinken,
as soon as as recently as Sunday
on with Jake Tapper, who has said
for some time
that Israel needs to be more careful
when it comes to civilians and killing
civilians as they try to root out Hamas.
But also said, again,
he understands and the U.S.
government understands
that Israel
is doing its best to root out Hamas
and that Hamas is using its own civilians
as human shields. Right.
They've been saying both things
all along,
which is they
aren't going to tell Israel
how to conduct this war,
but then also saying
that they need to make sure
that they minimize
civilian casualties, abide
by the laws of war.
And they've stressed
that over and over again.
And you can see that the president,
as well as his White House,
their patience is wearing thin
because they feel as though
they've been saying that
privately, publicly, in the conversations
that the president has with Netanyahu,
he has said this.
And yet it appears as though
Israel is not really listening
to the White House.
Yeah,
the president
is clearly looking for a finish line.
And that finish line
the White House does not believe includes
Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu
on the top of the Israeli government.
Really, really interesting development.
The U.N. is again
debating whether to demand
a cease fire on Gaza.
CNN's
Nic Robertson is tracking that story
for us. Nic, so the U.N.
General Assembly
appears set to demand a vote
for an immediate cease
fire, this days
after the Security Council
failed to agree on a similar call
because of a U.S. veto.
Walk us through what this vote may mean.
Yeah, immediate ceasefire and immediate
unconditional humanitarian access
into Gaza as well.
Those will be the same two demands
expected as were pushed on Friday,
rejected by that veto
by the United States.
The Security Council.
So this is the General Assembly.
193 nations able to vote.
And I think a lot of people
will be watching to see
how the needle has shifted
in opinion about Israel,
because this is a non-binding vote.
It needs a two thirds majority to pass
And it may well pass,
but it doesn't mean it's
going to come into effect.
There's no enforcement.
So this really becomes a measure
of trying to the U.N.
General Assembly,
if you will,
trying to send an even stronger message
to Israel.
Back in October,
there was a vote
along along
broadly similar terms, but 121 voted
for 14 against 44 abstentions.
So if the number of votes
for this immediate cease fire
and immediate humanitarian access
goes up,
then that shows that the dial is shifting
and pressure on Israel.
Will it make a difference to to Israel?
Potentially not.
But there's a real desperate
effort underway
to try to find ways
internationally now
to signal to Israel that
that this cannot continue in Gaza.
The high civilian casualty
toll the
the desperate
and worsening humanitarian situation
cannot continue,
and that that is, in essence,
what this vote will be about,
because it cannot enforce anything.
And that's expected to begin
in the next couple of hours.
The US once again expected to veto.
But as our reporting suggests,
the US
has behind closed
doors told the Israelis
that they have weeks left
to continue the operation at the pace
and magnitude
at which it's being conducted now
in Gaza.
Nic Robertson, thank you as always.